[ref](http://www.scrumguides.org/docs/scrumguide/v2017/2017-Scrum-Guide-US.pdf#zoom=100)

Below is just note for myself to recap.


# Producer Owner

For the Product Owner to succeed, the entire organization must respect his or her decisions. The Product Owner’s decisions are visible in the content and ordering of the Product Backlog. No one can force the Development Team to work from a different set of requirements.

# Scrum Master

The Scrum Master is a servant-leader for the Scrum Team. The Scrum Master helps those
outside the Scrum Team understand which of their interactions with the Scrum Team are helpful and which aren’t. The Scrum Master helps everyone change these interactions to maximize the value created by the Scrum Team.

# Scrum Master Service to the Product Owner

- Ensuring that goals, scope, and product domain are understood by everyone on the Scrum
Team as well as possible;
- Finding techniques for effective Product Backlog management; 
- Helping the Scrum Team understand the need for clear and concise Product Backlog items;
- Understanding product planning in an empirical environment;
- Ensuring the Product Owner knows how to arrange the Product Backlog to maximize value;


# Scrum Master Service to the Development Team

- Removing impediments to the Development Team’s progress;
- Coaching the Development Team in organizational environments in which Scrum is not yet
fully adopted and understood.

# Sprint Planning

Sprint Planning answers the following:

- What can be delivered in the Increment resulting from the upcoming Sprint?
- How will the work needed to deliver the Increment be achieved?

# Daily Scrum

The Development Team or team members often meet immediately after the Daily Scrum for
detailed discussions, or to adapt, or replan, the rest of the Sprint’s work.

The Scrum Master ensures that the Development Team has the meeting, but the Development
Team is responsible for conducting the Daily Scrum. The Scrum Master teaches the
Development Team to keep the Daily Scrum within the 15-minute time-box.

# Sprint Retrospective

The Sprint Retrospective is an opportunity for the Scrum Team to inspect itself and create a plan for improvements to be enacted during the next Sprint.
The Sprint Retrospective occurs after the Sprint Review and prior to the next Sprint Planning. This is at most a three-hour meeting for one-month Sprints. For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter. The Scrum Master ensures that the event takes place and that attendants understand its purpose. 

- Inspect how the last Sprint went with regards to people, relationships, process, and tools;
- Identify and order the major items that went well and potential improvements; and,
- Create a plan for implementing improvements to the way the Scrum Team does its work.

# Product Backlog

A Product Backlog is never complete. The earliest development of it lays out the initially known and best-understood requirements. The Product Backlog evolves as the product and the
environment in which it will be used evolves. The Product Backlog is dynamic; it constantly
changes to identify what the product needs to be appropriate, competitive, and useful. If a
product exists, its Product Backlog also exists

As a product is used and gains value, and the marketplace provides feedback, the Product
Backlog becomes a larger and more exhaustive list. Requirements never stop changing, so a
Product Backlog is a living artifact. Changes in business requirements, market conditions, or technology may cause changes in the Product Backlog.

# Sprint Backlog

The Sprint Backlog makes visible all the work that the Development Team identifies as necessary to meet the Sprint Goal. To ensure continuous improvement, it includes at least one high priority process improvement identified in the previous Retrospective meeting.