[ref1](https://www.scrumalliance.org/community/articles/2014/february/velocity)
[ref2](https://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/blog/know-exactly-what-velocity-means-to-your-scrum-team)

# Velocity

Velocity is a measure of the amount of work a Team can tackle during a single Sprint and is the key metric in Scrum. Velocity is calculated at the end of the Sprint by totaling the Points for all fully completed


How do you measure your velocity while driving? (Imagine the speedometer is broken.) You've been driving for the last two hours, you've gone 160 kilometers, so you know your average velocity is 80 km per hour.

If your final destiny is about 200 km away from your starting point:
- You know you will likely get there in 30 minutes, or
- If you stop now you have already gone 160 km, or
- If you need to stop and fuel up in 15 minutes, you can say you've done 180 km.
- 
The same goes for projects: Team velocity is the rate at which a team delivers stories from the product backlog. If you know your velocity, you'll have an idea about:
- How much value you've delivered until now (in story points and done user stories), and
- When you'll be able to deliver all user stories in the product backlog, and
- How many story points will you be able to deliver by a certain date.


We need velocity to:
- Predict how much scope can be delivered by a specific date
- Predict a date for a fixed amount of scope to be delivered
- Understand our limits while defining the amount of scope we will commit for a sprint


# Can I count in an incomplete user story?

No, you shouldn't. Incomplete is undone. Velocity is about finished, delivered user stories. Here are some reasons why you shouldn't count incomplete user stories:
We can't really figure out how much is ready and how much is not; it will be a wild guess.
We may be led by a false sense of accuracy, due to the use of fractional numbers.
Incomplete means the user story still has no value for the customer.

# So what should I do with those user stories?

Break the user stories into smaller ones. That way it will be easier for you to add them to a sprint and manage to deliver them.

# Should bugs and maintenance be considered in velocity estimation?

Yes, if you estimate their size in story points. It's work delivered, right? Although with no direct value to the customer, this work is indirectly associated with value delivered. The proper way to handle this is: Don't create bugs(!). Use zero-bugs & prio1-fix-bugs policies. Whenever a bug pops up, finish it off!

(different opinion)

To see how this applies to an agile project, consider the issue of whether a team should earn velocity credit for fixing bugs during a sprint. A team that uses velocity to measure how much functionality is delivered in a sprint will not claim credit for bug fixes. No new functionality has been delivered. So no points are earned.

A team using defining velocity as the ability to turn ideas into functionality, on the other hand, will claim credit for bug fixes. Their logic is that the time spent on bug fixing could have been spend adding new functionality except the product owner prioritized different work for them.

If you expect the future to be just like today—that is, the team will spend the same amount of time doing bug fixing, refactoring and the like as they do now, then using velocity as a measure of how much forward progress is made will be the right answer for you.

However, if you expect the future to be different—perhaps the large refactoring and time spent fixing bugs will soon be over—then you may want to define velocity as the team's ability to turn ideas into functionality, and would then add to velocity the points given to those activities.

# Velocity is not for comparasion

Team A is delivering 800 SP and Team B is delivering 30 SP. Does this mean A is better than B?

I don't know! And I don't care. Each team is comparable only to itself. Velocity is not used as a measure as if we were racing against each other. Velocity is used to help us improve our own timing -- to help us get better and better and speed up, compared only to ourselves.