# 2.4.5 aptitude コマンド

apt-getより高度な機能。正規表現を使った検索機能が優れています。

aptitude subcommand

- update : updates the list of available packages from the apt sources(this is equivalent to "apt-get update")
- install : install one or more packages 
- remove : uninstall one or more packages including configuration
- purge : uninstall one or more packages without configuration
- download : Downloads the .deb file for the given package to the current directory.
- show : Displays detailed information about one or more packages.
- search [pattern] search for packages matching one of the patterns supplied on the command line. All packages which match any of the given patterns will be displayed.
- full-upgrade : upgrade all the packages in the system.
- safe-upgrade : upgrade all the packages which don't remove to other packages in the system 

Useful search terms

```
$aptitude search "~napache2~i"
```

-~n正規表現 : search name of packages for text
-~d正規表現 : search descriptions for text
-~V正規表現 : search version for text
-~i : package is installed
-~U : package can be updated.
-~M : package was updated automatically.

# 2.5 RPM パッケージの管理

RPMはRed Hat社が開発したパッケージ管理システム

# 2.5.1 RPM パッケージ

```
$bash-4.2.45-5.e17_0.4.x86_64.rpm
```
- package name, package number, release number, architecture, extension.

# 2.5.2 rpmコマンドの利用

(1) インストール/アップグレードモード

- -i --install : install
- -U --upgrade : upgrade, install when it is not installed.
- -F --freshen : upgrade if it is already installed.
- -v : display information
- -h --hash : show progress bar with mark "#"
- --nodeps : install ignoring dependency.
- --force : replace the existing one to new one.
- --test : simulation

併用するオプション

(2) アンインストールモード 

- -e --erase : uninstall packages.
- --nodeps : uninstall ignoring dependency.

(3) 照会モード

-q : -指定したパッケージがインストールされているか照会

併用するオプション

-a --all : show installed all the packages.
- -f {file name} : show the name of packages which have the file of {file name}
- -p {package file name} : (インストールされていない)パッケージ PACKAGE_FILE を検索する。
- -c --configfile : show only config files.
- -d --docfiles : show only doc files.
- -i --info : show information of a package.
- -l --list : show the list of files in a package.
- -R --require : show all the files have dependency of a package.
- changelog : show logs of changes.

# 2.5.3 YUM

CentOS, Fedora has YUM(Yellow dog Updater, Modified) 

yum [sub-command]

- check-update : Implemented so I could know if my machine had any updates that needed to be applied without running it interactively.
- update : If run without any packages, update will update every currently installed package.
- install : Is used to install the latest version of a package or group of packages while ensuring that all dependencies are satisfied
- remove : Are used to remove the specified packages from the system as well as removing any packages which depend on the package being removed
- info : Is used to list a description and summary information about available packages
- list : Is used to list various information about available packages
- repolist : Produces a list of configured repositories
- search [keyword] : This is used to find packages when you know something about the package but aren't sure of it's name.
- search all [keyword] : You can force searching everything by specifying "all" as the first argument.
- grouplist : Is used to list the available groups from all yum repos.
